# Space-Settlement-Program
Creating a civilization for 10,000 people at L1 Libration Point

There are a number of viable location options to place the settlement in outerspace. The location must have balanced gravitational field forces between twoobjects. For this settlement, locations where the Earth and Moon’s gravitational field strengths are equal have been looked at. The ideal location for the settlement would be a suitable distance between the Earth and the Moon so that trips could be made to both with relative ease. To suit these constraints, the Earth-Lunar Libration point L1 was chosen to hold the settlement. At this point, the Earth and moons gravitational field strength is exactly equal, so the settlement can remain in a stable position. The Libration point L1 is a geostationary point – meaning that the settlement will rotate around the moon at the same rate that the moon rotates round the Earth, and therefore remain at the same point relative to the Earth [2]. This location also allows fast communication between the Earth and Moon and also enables travel to the moon to obtain any supplies such as natural material or natural gas. Constructing the whole structure in space could prove to be a challenging task, as it would require extremely skilled workers who are also trained astronauts to safely construct the settlement. However, having zero gravity means that large machinery is not needed and large objects can be manoeuvred around much easier. Living on the space settlement means that while living there, the residents are completely confined to be “indoors” 24/7, which could prove to be challenging for some people. Efforts have been made to make the settlement as “natural” as possible, however, there is unfortunately no way for the conditions to mirror conditions on Earth that humans are accustomed to, e.g. the changing climate, heavy rains or true fresh air.Using the Libration point L1 rather than a location orbiting Earth means that
there is no possibility of the settlement being damaged by space debris. According to the European Space Agency, there are around 21000 pieces ofspace debris orbiting the Earth. These pieces of space debris are travelling at speeds of multiple kilometres per second around Earth, which could potentially cause millions of pounds worth of damage to the settlement if a collision occurred. These pieces of debris come from satellites and space stations situated around Earth’s orbit and consist of screws, nails or generally anything that can be let loose from space structures. These pieces of space debris would be an extra worry if the settlement were situated within Earth’s orbital path. However, using the Earth-Lunar L1 Libration point, the settlement will not come in contact with space debris – it is only meteor particles that the settlement will be exposed to. There is still a possibility of collision, but this possibility is drastically reduced using the Earth-Lunar L1 Libration point. 
